I'm going to show you how to make a
white sauce which is one of the classic
French sauces probably the first thing
you'd ever learn if you went to a
cooking school in France and I've got 25
grams of butter which I've just melted
here in this pan and to that I'm going
to add the equal quantity of flour sets
another 25 grams pop that in and then
take your wooden spoon I'm just going to
stir the two together what that does it
makes something which the French call a
roof and it's the base for an awful lot
of sources also thickening things like
gravy so cut those together over a
medium heat probably take a minute just
select them go you just want it to start
bubbling up and just cook out the flour
a bit otherwise your sauce will take it
to taste a bit flowery which isn't what
you want and then to that I'm going to
add I've got 300 millilitres of whole
milk and I'm just going to add that in
stirring as I go now this is the only
tricky part of the sauce you just need
to add just a little bit at a time
because otherwise you'll end up with
quite a lumpy sauce so you need to stir
quite vigorously as you go
keeping it over the heat you just need
to add a little bit at a time as you go
just like that
now you'll see it's thickening up like
so now I'm going to put the milk down
and beat it quite vigorously because if
you can see that starting to lump a bit
but that's not a problem so let's just
stir that in a bit more milk to it like
so now
what sometimes happens is it gets a bit
lumpy like this which isn't anything to
worry about all you need to do if that
does happen is grab a whisk and then use
that just to get rid of any of those
lumps just like that now pour the rest
of the milk in whisk that through it's
quite a good idea I quite like making
this in a nonstick saucepan but if you
do that you really need to get one of
those nonstick whisks that are available
in shops now so that's pretty much
amalgamated so I can pour the rest of
the milk in one go like this and carry
on with my spoon and I just want to stir
that through like so and now that's
quite liquid as you can see what you
need to do is just cook that stirring it
every now and again for about five
minutes or so and then what happen is
that the sauce will thicken up now what
I've got here is a pan where I've done
just that it's about five minutes I've
let this bubble away on the heat and as
you can see that's bubbling away nicely
now now I know that it's ready because
if I take my wooden spoon and I just
coat the back of it with the sauce if
you run your finger down it like that
you'll see it keeps its shape and keeps
a nice trail so stir away and then that
is your classic white sauce now it's
known as one of the classic sauces
because you can add so many different
flavors to it so you can put some
mustard initiatives if you like it's
also lovely with herbs things like that
but probably my favourite way of serving
it is with some cheese which makes a
mornay sauce and I've just got some
grated cheddar cheese you can also use
Gruyere you can use blue cheese if you
like as well a handful is probably about
25 to 50 grams put that in stir it
through and once you've done that that's
one of the classics it's absolutely
perfect what you put on top of a lasagne
and also for my favorite macaroni cheese
and there you have it a really perfect
white or cheese sauce and it really is
he is that